[Music]
pilot francisco sarabia was flying over
a patch of desert land in mexico
when his instruments started to act
increasingly odd
but that wasn't the only problem he was
facing his radio equipment was failing
too
disoriented and alarmed the man had to
make an emergency landing in the middle
of nowhere
little did he know that this nowhere
would later be dubbed
the zone of silence and the mystery
behind this place
would equal that of the infamous bermuda
triangle
if you ever find yourself in a desert 25
miles away from ceballos mexico
and just 400 miles to the south of el
paso texas
get yourself ready you're in the mappamy
silent zone
and some bizarre things might start to
happen right away as i've already
mentioned
francisco serrabia discovered the
anomalous zone
in the middle of a desert in the 1930s
when something unknown
began to interfere with his airplane's
routine operations
but despite being the first he wasn't
the only one who experienced the
inexplicable activity of the zone
in 1964 the state-owned company pemex
which stands for petroleos mexicanos
sent
engineer harry de la pina to explore the
desert in that region
the man had to figure out if it was
possible to construct an oil pipeline
running from jimenez chihuahua in the
north of mexico
however this expedition didn't exactly
turn out as expected
and the main reason for that was radio
anomalies that affected every single
radio in the team
they simply wouldn't function like at
all
in fact harry de la pina was the first
to give
the zone of silence its name
interestingly
the man was so intrigued by this
mysterious area
that he kept returning there to find out
more about the anomaly
he found out that dead radio zones
couldn't be mapped
because they seemed to wander all over
the place no one could explain the
phenomenon
but thanks to the engineers reports the
mapami silent zone
got its eerie reputation on the other
hand
weird radio silence isn't the only
oddity of the creepy zone
oh no there are other even more
perplexing mysteries
like what's that weird trio that locals
keep meeting in the zone
there are two men and a woman all three
of them blot
which is already weird for that region
interestingly
every time people see them they're
wearing bizarre clothing that isn't
suitable for a journey in the desert
whatsoever
the the strangers not only speak spanish
as fluently as the locals
but they're also attractive and polite
to the extreme
the story has it that the trio frequents
one ranch
and their motive is always the same when
they arrive
they don't ask for food money or shelter
all they need is to fill their bottles
with the water from the well
only once one of the ranch workers dared
to ask the visitors where they come from
but all he got in reply was three
enigmatic smiles
and the words from above but that's not
all
in october 1975 two fossil hunters
ernesto and josefina diaz headed toward
the zone of silence
to collect as many rare samples and
unusual rocks as they could find
but this adventure didn't go as smoothly
as they hoped
and almost ended in a disaster immersed
in their work
the couple didn't notice a violent rain
storm coming toward them
until it was too late they tried to
escape by jumping into their car
and driving away at full speed but they
weren't fast enough to dodge a flash
flood
the situation was becoming more dire
with every passing minute
and the ground around their vehicle was
slowly but surely
turning into a boggy swamp that was
threatening to suck them in
the couple was stranded inside the car
and was preparing for the worst
but then something inexplicable happened
when ernesto and josefina saw two men
approaching them
they thought they were hallucinating but
no the men seemed real
tall and well-built they were wearing
identical bright yellow raincoats and
caps
they promised to free the couple from
the trap and true to their word
the diaz's car was out of danger and on
firm
ground in a matter of minutes however
when ernesto climbed out of the vehicle
to thank the men
they were nowhere to be found mystery
unsolved on top of all that the zone of
silence is known as a 30-mile patch of
deserted land
where meteorites come crashing down on
an eerily
regular basis in the 20th century alone
there were quite a number of such
crashes with two of the meteorites
miraculously
falling in the same spot but 16 years
apart
in 1938 and 1954
eyewitnesses of one of the most
impressive falls in 1969
claimed they couldn't forget that event
for years one of them was a man named
benjamin palacios
who had been living on the edge of the
mapami silent zone his whole life
he woke up at night to find the sky as
bright as if it were daytime
the light could be seen miles away and
it was accompanied by a tremendous noise
it was so loud that the windows were
breaking in the nearby houses
then the meteorite exploded into
thousands of pieces that littered the
ground for miles
creating one of the biggest strewn
fields known
and still there's even more to the zone
of silence
on july 11 1970 the u.s
launched an athena rocket from the air
force base in green river utah
to collect more data on how vehicles
behaved when they re-entered the upper
atmosphere
but here's the thing the rocket was
supposed to land
somewhere in the area of white sands in
new mexico
instead it went off course and
as if being pulled by some external
force
crashed right in the heart of the zone
of silence
was it a coincidence or a freaky
irregularity
the u.s authorities asked for permission
to retrieve the rocket debris
and the mexican government granted them
access to the site
but in the process the search party
could tell that something was tampering
with all of their communications
that's why it was incredibly difficult
to coordinate the work of the teams
besides interrupted radio signals people
also had issues with satellite and
television signals
some theorists even supposed that strong
magnetic fields in the area
had somehow created a so-called dark
zone for modern technologies
it all sounds very very mysterious but
let's figure out what stands behind
these stories
understandably scientists have been
trying to explain the things happening
in the zone of silence for years
the most plausible conclusion they've
drawn so far
is the influence of minerals that are
deposited deep underground
for example some scientists are sure
that high levels of magnetite and
uranium in the area
may be responsible for the lack of radio
signals
besides as you remember the zone of
silence is covered with debris from
fallen meteorites
which are usually rich in iron and other
metals
they may be the reason for the zone
signal anomalies as well
on the other hand some experts disagree
that the zone of silence attracts more
meteorites than any other place on earth
they also state that there's not enough
evidence to prove
that something paranormal or unusual is
happening there
as they say all the rumors about the
abnormal nature of the area
are exaggerated and ridiculous but even
skeptics can't deny
that there have been cases of radio
communication loss and weird
signal tampering on the other hand this
phenomenon may have another rational
explanation
the zone of silence is surrounded by a
mountain range
which can easily cause interference as
for the mysterious friendly people
strolling through the desert
experts are sure that they're nothing
but an urban legend
created to lure curious souls and
develop local tourism
but even without these stories and blood
chilling legends
the zone is nothing short of marvelous
scientists say that the environment of
the area is genuinely unique
with its own flora and fauna species for
instance
you can find 31 kinds of plants there
that only grow in this region
as well as 75 species of protected
animals
including the desert tortoise which has
a vulnerable status nowadays
also the place is swarming with fossils
which can shed light on the history of
the region
it's no wonder that in 1979 the zone of
silence
became part of the mapani bosan
biosphere reserve
with a laboratory built next to the
mountain range cyrosan ignacia
wow do you know any other mysterious
place on our planet
let me know down in the comments if you
learned something new today
then give this video a like and share
with a friend
but hey don't go silent on me just yet
we have over 2000 cool videos for you to
check out
all you have to do is pick the left or
right video click on it
and enjoy stay on the bright side of
life
you